# Chatify Web App

Chatify is a web chat application that enables users to have anonymous conversations and communicate using emojis. The app utilizes Socket.io for real-time communication via websockets, Multiavatar API for generating random avatars, and a robust authentication and authorization system built from scratch using bcrypt.

## Features

- *Real-time Communication*: Chat with other users in real-time, enabling seamless and fast interactions.
- *Anonymous Chatting*: User identities are concealed, providing a safe and private chatting environment.
- *Emoji Support*: Express yourself with a wide range of emojis to add emotions to your conversations.
- *Random Avatars*: Choose from a collection of unique avatars generated by the Multiavatar API.
- *Secure Authentication*: A strong and secure authentication system to protect user accounts.
- *Authorization Management*: Comprehensive authorization mechanisms to control access to different app features.

## Technologies Used

- **Socket.io**: The app utilizes Socket.io to enable real-time, bidirectional communication between clients and the server using websockets.

- **Multiavatar API**: The Multiavatar API is used to generate random avatars for users to set up as their profiles.

- **bcrypt**: A robust and secure encryption library used to hash and store passwords securely.

## Installation

Follow these steps to set up the Chatify web app locally:

1. Clone the repository from GitHub:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/chatify-web-app.git
   cd chatify-web-app

2. Install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install

3. Set up environment variables:
    Create a .env file in the root directory and add the following:
    ```bash
    PORT=3000
    DATABASE_URL=your_database_connection_string
    SECRET_KEY=your_secret_key_for_jwt

4. Run the app:
    ```bash
    npm start

5. Open your web browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000 to access Chatify


## Usage

1. **Register/Login**: Create a new account or log in to an existing one using a valid email and password.

2. **Main Chat Interface**: You will be directed to the main chat interface, where you can see the list of online users and their avatars.

3. **Chatting**: To start a conversation, click on a user's avatar and begin typing in the chat box. Press Enter or click the send button to send messages.

4. **Emojis**: Use the emoji picker to add emojis to your messages. Click on the emoji icon to open the picker.

5. **Avatar Setting**: You can set your avatar by clicking on the avatar icon in the top-right corner and selecting a random avatar from Multiavatar API.

6. **Logout**: To log out of Chatify, click on the logout button in the top-right corner.



Happy Chatifying! 🎉